files to send:
plos.pdf - manuscript
(plos.tex, plos.bib)
SI/*
selectedFigs/*
(how do they know which figure correspond to which image file?)

cover letter
striking image

data review url



Notes:
== tab
Current Funding Sources List
CNPq
Award Number: 140860/2013-4 | Recipient: Renato Fabbri
UNDP
Award Number: 2013/000566, BRA/12/018 | Recipient: Renato Fabbri
Add a Funding Source

== tab
Author Contributions: conceived and designed the experiments
RF RP
(as experiências de levantamento de conhecimento específico,
geralmente em forma de entrevistas online.
Os experimentos mentais de uso da ontologia.
Os experimentos de uso da ontologia para amadurecimentos
conceituais e disponibilização de dados.)

Author Contributions: performed the experiments
RF RP HF RL
(incluindo experimentos do VCPS e da OPS)

Author Contributions: analyzed the data
RF RP HF RL
(incluindo VCPS e OPS)

Author Contributions: contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools
RF
(pelo foco e contribuição do artigo ser a OPS final,
senão puxa uma parte que não tem descrita no artigo,
que foi do corais e terminou no primeiro OWL.)A

Author Contributions: contributed to the writing of the manuscript0
RF FA DM

Author Contributions: other 
Most writing and coding: RF. Preliminary versions of the ontology: HP RL RP. Translations of terms to Spanish: FA. Mentoring about semantic web: DM.

Financial Disclosure 
National Counsel of Technological and Scientific Development (process 140860/2013-4, project 870336/1997-5);
United Nations Development Program (contract: 2013/000566; project BRA/12/018).
The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.

Competing Interests 
The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.

Dual Publication 
This article is published at ArXiv:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1501.02662
which is not a peer review publication.

Suggest Academic Editors
Tudor Groza,
Indra Neil Sarkar,
Chris Mavergames

Please describe where your data may be found...
All RDF data files are available from the Datahub.io database and accessible at:
http://datahub.io/organization/socialparticipation
The RDF ontology file is maintained at github:
https://github.com/ttm/ops/tree/master/rdf
and at Stanford Webprotege:
http://webprotege.stanford.edu/#Edit:projectId=d9a2b92e-f158-41e8-bd71-94ded0f7c699
These resources are also in other nonstable URLs from State and civil society third parties.

If your co-authors' institutions will not provide any funding to publish the article, indicate why.
Three of the authors are not from research institutions, the other two are partners from a nearby department and are having the same difficulties I describe for funding from my institution.

If your institution cannot provide any funding to publish the article, indicate why.
Administrative and academic superiors enumerated two reasons:
1) Brazilian funding agencies do not have specific programs for this kind of publication (as they do for conferences)
2) University research funds are very reduced  due to a national (and academic) crisis and austerity measures.

If you wish to make additional comments to support your request, provide them below. If you have no additional comments, enter "None" in the box. 
This article reports on an international community effort for linking data from State participatory instances and has had already 
some use and linkage from ArXiv and Github repositories.
This proposed PLOS peer reviewed publication should have significant impact on academic,
 State and civil society groups dedicated to linked data, social participation and transparency.
Qualification of such emergent and transdisciplinary research urges so
more consistent steps can be taken.

== tab "Enter Comments"
comments you would like to send to the editorial office.
This manuscript reports an open conceptual formalization derived from open processes with open scripts, data and OWL ontologies which have had some uses already and should keep reverberating.
Subsequent endeavors are being written for peer review,
but the ontolgy in use is reported on this manuscript.
It is the only Brazilian participatory
ontology with
a somewhat more general acceptance,
and the only with so many collaborators and a community.




